# The Drakkar's Rise

Αmong [[Worldbuilding/Vistani]] legends, there is the tale of a beast known only as the Drakkar, a name whose meaning has been lost in the aeonic swirl of time. According to this apocalyptic tale, the Drakkar brings about the destruction of the entire Vistani people. The Vistani say the Drakkar will be a Vistani male with the Sight, and this is why the seer and rauni of a tribe put any males they sense have this ability to death immediately. Not every Vistana knows of this legend, but for ages a tribe known as the Zarovan have been watching and waiting for the Drakkar's appearance. In fact, not all male Vistani with the sight are Drakkar, or can be him - one such male, Hyskosa, lived some time ago and foretold the coming of the real Drakkar, a monster that would end all Vistani. The Drakkar is none other than the monstrous issue of a union between Gabrielle and a demon lord.

Gabrielle named her son Malocchio, after the strangers evil eye (for surely that was what robbed her of reason). Reassuring her vague recollections a "handsome gentleman," Malocchio was born appearing human, except for a slight defect: a sixth finger on hand. In all other respects, Malocchio appeared to be a regular baby. Despite his cherubic appearance, which was a small comfort to Gabrielle while recovering from her three days of excruciating hard labor, it was quickly apparent the Malocchio was not a normal child. Most obviously, the child was growing much too quickly to be normal. By the time Gabrielle had recovered from childbirth, Malocchio was already walking and talking.

And as the boy grew, his fiendish nature became increasingly apparent. When he thought no one was looking, he would cause flocks of birds around the castle to fly into walls. He would call wolves from the forest and command them to attack villagers for his amusement. However, not all of Malocchio's cruelties went unnoticed by his mother. Once Gabrielle's suspicions were aroused, she used Eva's Tarokka Deck to perform a reading on her son. She knows the full range of her son's evil powers---through she does not want to believe his true identity---and she has begun a scheme to use Malocchio in her own selfish plans. Her hope is that through her son, she will finally be able to strike directly at the hated Vistani who have shunned her.

## Zarovan Vistani

The Zarovan are perhaps the most powerful Vistani in the Mists. They are believed to the source of all Vistani powers. According to one Boem legend, a band of Vistani stole magic from the darkest gods, weakening the divine beings' powers so that they could not destroy the world. Ironically yet understandably, other mortals came to fear these folk, and they were no longer welcome anywhere. They became nomads; they shared their dark powers with all wanderers, to frighten and punish ungrateful giorgios everywhere. They are linked with Strahd von Zarovich, and some speculate that the Zarovan are Strahd's allies or perhaps even his jailers. The Zarovan are led by Vincenzo (the captain); Eva (the raunie); and Marcella (the seer).

Despite her awesome divinatory gifts, Marcella is powerless to locate the Drakkar. She knows the creature now resides near Karina because it is the region of the Demiplane has become obscured in her divinations. The Zarovan captain, Vincenzo is now seeking the giorgio at the Carnival whom she has foreseen will defeat the Dukkar.

> "And you, Gabrielle Aderre, wherever you are, may your foul offspring make you regret your life of evil. But may the price of your punishment not be the world."

> "From that monstrous union, an abomination was born, a creature in the guise of a child, known to us as the Drakkar. It is this creature we have come to defeat. Its presence gnaws at us like a cancer, as it is a gaping hole in our Sight. We ask you to assist our endeavor. As giorgio you can walk about Karina unnoticed, and learn of its lair. For this information we would be grateful."


