# Shadowborn

To the folk of the world, [[Gloomwrought]]'s citizens are a baffling mix of extremes. These people have a few characteristics in common, each of which is touched on below.

-   **Dark Features:** Folk of the Shadowfell carry the taint of long years in a realm that continually drains the body and the soul. Complexions become pale, gray, or darker. Expressions tend toward the grim, and it's common to see a faraway look of gloomy contemplation on people's faces. It is as though the inhabitants of Gloomwrought project an aura of dreariness, suited to the melancholy shadows of their homeland. They become faded echoes of their former or potential selves, leeched of life and vibrance.
-   **Morose Behavior:** Shadowfell natives react slowly, stare vacantly, and speak darkly. Travelers to the Shadow fell remember the odd way natives treat one another, with outbursts of strong and negative emotion punctuating periods of general sullenness. Shadowborn are slow to trust and quick to assume the worst. Without exception, they are moody, tending toward grumpiness, sadness, and bleakness. To natives of the world, the presence of a shadowborn person is a drain on light-hearted moments. For some Shadowfell residents, the plane magnifies a negative personality trait such as rage, materialism, hate, or pride, instead of instilling a weary sense of depression. These individuals are more effective than the disheartened masses. Ready and willing to take control of their fellow citizens, such people use their amplified aspects to rise to positions of power and authority. Creatures that dwell in the Shadow fell must find constant stimulation for their minds and bodies or risk becoming lifeless husks.
-   **Thrill Seeking:** The shadowborn learned long ago that the secret to survival in the Shadowfell is passion or, some might say, mania. Revelling in intense or novel experiences allows natives to live longer in the Shadowfell's gloom. Pleasure and pain are obvious avenues for intensifying life. So is any other extreme experience. Some folks obsessively collect exotic items, constantly keeping an eye out for missing pieces to pick up. Others argue or fight for the sake of fiery conflict.
-   **Acceptance of Death:** Creatures die, and the Shadowfell is a perfect encapsulation of that truth. Its residents accept the inevitability of death to varying extents. Loss of life never surprises Shadowfell natives. It can be chilling for a visitor from the world to witness how calmly such people face death and deal with its finality.


# Golems

Golems that come into being in Gloomwrought take life from the same energy that causes the city's architecture to shift. The reason why buildings and other physical features of the city wax and wane is unknown, but whatever power causes the phenomenon is imperfect. Collapsing buildings do not always go quietly---a spark of life sometimes escapes. A column, an archway, or even a street corner can absorb this energy and become animate. Even the wall that surrounds the city might slough off a chunk of itself to form a wall golem. 

A Gloomwrought golem acts as an independent creature but remains part of the whole---it can still tap into the city's energy, causing the ground to rise up and hinder enemies. Though the golems are dangerous, residents of Gloomwrought bear them no ill will, understanding that they are a normal hazard of life in the City of Midnight.


# Keepers

The Keepers of Gloomwrought are mystery made manifest. Despite constant attempts to learn more about the creatures and their enigmatic goals, the reclusive Keepers baffle all. They rarely interact with the city's inhabitants, though they occupy nearly every street corner in the city. As they studiously examine the buildings, the creatures speak only in a series of guttural clicks. For the most part, the Keepers seem content to leave the other inhabitants of the city alone, provided no one interferes with their maintenance. If they are attacked, the Keepers do everything in their power to avoid further conflict, but they are surprisingly lethal when forced to fight. Keepers can shift between humanoid form and a motile mass of viscous black tar, evading, attacking, and devastating those who dare antagonize them. Keepers rarely interact with others.

When anyone asks a Keeper what it's doing or where it came from, the Keeper ignores the question, avoids looking at the questioner, and keeps working. No sage has any record of a Keeper responding to such a query. The Keepers do seem able to influence or control the golems of Gloomwrought, and they sometimes fight alongside a piece of the living city. They also have a strong connection to creatures of shadow, calling them into battle when facing a powerful foe.

Where facts are few, theories abound. Most citizens of Gloomwrought assume that the Keepers serve Prince Rolan, and that they are responsible for the constantly changing landscape of the city. No one in the city recalls a time when the Keepers were not there, quietly toiling in the background. The creatures might predate Gloomwrought, and some think the Keepers built the city with their own hands. New theories suggest the Keepers' continuous vigil isn't responsible for the city's shifting face, but instead it fortifies Gloomwrought against degradation caused by the Shadow fell.

City dwellers have long thought of the Keepers as a homogenous group, but recent events suggest otherwise. Keepers with silver skulls ornamenting their black smocks began showing up throughout the city, in ever-increasing numbers. On rare occasions, these Keepers were glimpsed fighting---and even killing--- other Keepers. This turn of events has led to speculation about "false" Keepers, creatures that are either Keepers corrupted by an outside force or beings able to mimic the Keepers. Worst of all, these false Keepers seem to have the ability to manipulate the city, making Gloomwrought strike out against their enemies. As with most of the strange and inexplicable phenomena in Gloomwrought, the existence of false Keepers has been blamed on powers such as Orcus and Vecna.