[[Gloomwrought]]

The zealous members of the Black Guard believe Shar to be the only god worthy of reverence. They want to impose worship of the Queen of Death on every citizen and push all traces of other religions out. Members of the Black Guard disagree widely on how soon they must achieve that ultimate goal and what means they should use. Two points they do agree on are that Shar's temples must be preserved, and her priests and followers must be protected. 

Few deities other than Shar have much of a following within Gloomwrought; even so, the members of the Guard believe that even a single shrine to Kord or a festival for Avandra is unacceptable. They contend that since the Shadow fell is Shar's domain, other gods have no place there and no claim to the worship of its people. To discourage the worship of other gods, the Guard demolishes shrines, cordons off other gods' temples to discourage would-be worshipers, and challenges the champions of other deities.

The laws of Gloomwrought aren't easily changed, but a minority of the Black Guard wants to compel Prince Rolan to ban worship of gods other than Shar. These members, mostly older, fear that the Guard's violence and anger will alienate the people of the city, damaging the Queen of Death's reputation in their eyes. The other members of the Guard don't care what the law says: They want their agenda to come to fruition immediately. Their attacks and harassment create a negative impression among the people of Gloomwrought. 

Most in the Black Guard consider this image positive, but the older members think it is terrible. Because of this divide, the members of the Black Guard sometimes plot against themselves, enlisting outsiders to work as their agents. Recently a Knight named Olevex has taken command of the Black Guard in Gloomwrought. Under his guidance, the knights have become obsessed with guarding the Ebonmere, the inner sanctum of the temple, even to the extent of protecting the clergy. The Black Guard attacks anyone who threatens the peace of Raven's Eyrie.