[[Gloomwrought]]
# History

Balaren, a tiefling warrior and a natural leader, founded the Crimson Sashes as an expert party of mercenary adventurers. Years ago, Balaren and his companions helped defend Gloomwrought from an assault. Fighting atop the outer walls, Balaren landed the killing blow on the invaders' champion, a giant named Bonesplitter, causing the enemy army to break ranks. Balaren's victory gained him prestige within the city and, perhaps more important, cachet with Prince Rolan.


# Operation

The entrenched nobility consider him to be something of an upstart, but Balaren was quick to secure his position in the city. Seeing a need for a force of capable warriors, Balaren hired his adventuring companions and convinced them to stay with him in the City of Midnight as part of a larger mercenary force. Balaren presented each one with a red sash to mark membership in the new company. Since that day, dozens of mercenary warriors and mages have joined the Crimson Sashes. Those who wish to sign up must endure a probationary period. Once a new hire proves worthy, he or she receives a red sash and full membership in the company. Balaren sells his employees' services as bodyguards, security experts, and problem solvers. True soldiers for hire, the members of the Crimson Sashes have few principles that money can't buy. They have been publicly involved in private wars and vengeance killings, as well as assassinations. Among the city's elite, hiring the Crimson Sashes carries with it a degree of prestige and Prince Rolan keeps their original members on retainer at all times. Balaren is one of the few citizens of Gloomwrought that can petition Rolan for an audience at any time.

In addition to being an accomplished combatant, Balaren is a cunning businessperson. Rich people visiting Gloomwrought promptly receive a bid for security work from the Crimson Sashes upon their arrival in the city. The proposal spells out the dangers of the city and the skills of the Crimson Sashes' specialists. A staged fight isn't out of the question if Balaren thinks a demonstration is needed.