[[Gloomwrought]]

At one time or another, every faction is a playing piece that the House of the Eye, a secret society of Orcus-worshiping nobles and traders, patiently manipulates for a sinister purpose. The group's ultimate goal is to undermine the current social order and set up Orcus as the highest power within the city. These cultists are unafraid of bloodying their hands to increase their influence. When they face someone who refuses to bend to their will, they hire assassins or use foul magic to deal with the problem. Such attacks are public and showy, a dissident's torturous death serving as a warning to any who dare to oppose Orcus or think to escape the deity's reach.

Cultists identify each other by the intricately carved onyx ring that each member wears on his or her thumb. Each ring has a magical resonance with its wearer that is difficult to falsify. Encoded phrases carved inside his or her ring indicate the member's rank, which determines how much he or she knows about various schemes. House of the Eye cultists value their religion above family, station, and wealth. Each is willing to die before revealing the cult's secrets. Its members maintain false rivalries with one another, ensuring that no one outside the group is able to connect them. To further preserve their privacy, members use an ancient form of sign language that allows them to communicate discreetly, even in the most crowded market. On rare occasions, the entire cult meets.

These clandestine gatherings are held in a different place each time, and the locations are determined at the last minute. In dark basements, atop ruined towers, and even on the decks of derelict ships, House of the Eye cultists convene to share information about the state of the cult, to trade secrets of power, to perform wicked rites, and to renew their vows to Orcus. Only the founder of the order is permitted to be absent from these moots. In his or her stead, an agent of the Veiled League (see below) delivers edicts to other leading cultists. The founder takes this precaution to safeguard his or her identity. Among the other cultists, rumors abound about this figure's nature. Some insist that the leader is the head of a powerful house. Others hope that a mighty lich or angel of secrets commands them. It's unlikely that even the well-informed Veiled League knows the truth.