[[Gloomwrought]]

Although the Harskel family's original members were mere upstarts compared to those among established houses, it has been the leading merchant house of Gloomwrought for the past few generations. Numerous foes have tried to unseat the Harskels from their position of power. The house has maintained its superiority through cunning and deceit, as well as at the points of mercenaries' swords. Some say that although Prince Rolan owns the City of Midnight in name, the Harskels own it in spirit.

To swell the ranks of the family to compete with the older noble houses, House Harskel goes out of its way to adopt new members, particularly from among nonhumans. This practice increases the family's numbers, and it grants the house the skills and the perspectives of disparate peoples. Today, the house's membership includes individuals from several races. At its core, however, House Harskel has always centered on the human family from which the house takes its name. The infamous Dedrek Harskel continues that legacy, overseeing the house's activities from Harskel Acropolis.

The Harskel family has repeatedly aligned its strength with that of Prince Rolan. The house's vast private army has fought alongside the Prince's Guard and the Deathless Watch. At any time, three of the house's scions serve in the Prince's Guard, having sworn fealty to Rolan. This relationship with Rolan means little to the common citizens of Gloomwrought. A city resident could go an entire lifetime without encountering Rolan and his personal guards. On the other hand, one can scarcely go a day without dealing with the Harskels in some way. In addition to the commercial power the family displays at Harskel's Emporium, the house employs scores of clandestine merchants who deal in goods that the Harskels publicly condemn. From the brightest public plazas to the darkest blackmarket stalls, House Harskel has its fingers on every thread of the city's economy.