[[Gloomwrought]]

The Tenebrous Cabal became the first institution in Gloomwrought to refine and teach the use of shadow as a power source. A great many cabalists learned to weave shadow into shrouds to both entrap their enemies and disguise themselves. Others sculpted it into living forms, creating dark monsters as ephemeral as mist. Combined with training in nonmagical stealth and skulduggery, their magic made their agents extremely cunning. Cabalists soon insinuated themselves into powerful positions in the city, all the while concealing their power and denying the existence of the order altogether. 

Through the friends it has placed in crucial stations, the cabal can exert significant political force in Gloomwrought without ever revealing itself publicly. Most members of the cabal learn only a little shadow magic, don't get deeply involved in the group, and never find out about its clandestine activities. Highly trained agents, though, form the backbone of the group. The cabal might demand an assassination, sabotage, manipulation, or some other act requiring an unseen, untraceable hand. An agent always carries out the will of the order, in Gloomwrought and beyond.

Although all people in positions of power know of the cabal's reputation, they only fool themselves if they think this knowledge makes them safe. The shadow training that agents receive gives them mastery over invisibility, disguise, and misdirection. Furthermore, they know tactics to circumvent any defense. A busker on the street might be an agent casing a business to loot that night, or a steward for a merchant house could be pulling the strings of her supposed masters.

The Circle of Tenebrous Masters, most of whom are teachers as well as capable practitioners of shadow magic, sees to the running of the cabal. At the circle's center is the cabal's leader, the Grandmaster of Shadows. Only one cabalist can hold the grandmaster title, and death is the only way a grandmaster loses this lofty position. 

Teliko, a vampire, is the current Grandmaster of Shadows. In just a few years, he rose up through the ranks of the Tenebrous Cabal to claim the position. Teliko's rivals had a tendency to disappear. Many other masters believe he used unholy magic to swallow his enemies into shadow, stealing their knowledge and power. No one has yet proven these claims or dared to speak out against him. The currently available members of the Circle of Masters are Teliko, a shadowborn human sorceress called Lamia, an old halfling woman called Sid and a handsome, well-dressed young man, Pollivar Harskell.

The group's leader, the Lord of Hexes, taps teams for missions. His motivations are as mysterious as the individual himself. The Lord of Hexes interacts with other members of the cabal only through the guise of a shadowy silhouette that appears long enough to pass along its message, then disperses into nothing. Some cabalists develop pet theories about the group's greater goals. Hints gathered from the cabal's ancient texts and labyrinthine initiation rites suggest a few possible agendas. 

One theory says that if enough agents come under the sway of shadow magic, they could transform pieces of the natural world to become more like the Shadow fell, slowly consuming that realm in gloom. Another claims that when initiates relinquish fragments of souls to the Shadow fell for their power, they are feeding the Lord of Hexes. Proponents of this theory believe the Lord to be a composite creature or hive mind, thriving on and reinforcing the strength of the cabal. Regardless of their take on the cabal's motives, members of the group know better than to ask or challenge the Lord of Hexes about what they've found.