# The Tarnished Bulwark

## Background

When Dol Arrah fell, the pieces of her divinity were scattered across the multiverse with little care. Each aspect of the goddess took on material form according to the abstract concepts it represented. That is how the Argent Bulwark was created: the Dawnbringer's desire to shield the Planes from darkness distilled in an unbreakable, silver shield that shed brilliant blue light. Perhaps by chance or according to the goddess's will, the shield ended up in the Shadowfell. Its blue radiance held even the Dark at bay, and the monsters of the Shadowfell feared it instinctively.

But the mortal residents of the Shadowfell weren't repelled by the shield's light - in fact, they flocked to its protective radiance like moths to a flame. The shield became the centre of many a conflict, for the space around it was the only truly safe haven in the entire plane. It came to pass that, after countless centuries of conflict and slaughter, an adventuring company from the Material Plane who had accidentally crossed into the Shadowfell came upon the shield. Their organisation and the cunning of their leader, Rolan Seymour, was enough to wrest control of the artifact from the wretched Shadowborn, and the company began to build a permanent, walled campsite around it.

One night a mysterious being, taller than human and clad in a black cloak, approached the edge of the Bulwark's light. It spoke to Rolan in dark whispers and promised a city of grand scale under the man's absolute control and out of reach of the Shadowfell's darkness. All the man would have to do to achieve this, the being said, is bring the Argent Bulwark to the depths of the earth, into a place it called the Shadowheart. Then, it promised, Rolan would not only enjoy the Bulwark's protection, but also gain control over the surrounding area. As the figure spoke, the ground behind it melted into a dark tunnel to the fabled Shadowheart.

Rolan agreed, and the figure melted into the tunnel's darkness. The human took the shield and descended, deeper and deeper beneath. He saw no sign of the figure, and the Bulwark's light progressively dimmed the deeper he went. Just as Rolan was about to turn back, he emerged into the Shadowheart - a natural-looking cavern with a pool of inky black darkness in its middle.

The darkness bubbled and rose and formed the mysterious figure, who extended a hand towards Rolan. "Here must the Bulwark remain. Tell no one of this place and come here only in the greatest need. In return, you shall have an eternal domain to rule absolutely."

And Rolan cast the shield into the inky black which rose to envelop it. The figure stepped out of the pool and Rolan saw its pale skin and grim expression for the first time - the first Keeper had been born, and as Rolan peered into its eyes, he saw images of a grand black fortress. The [[Shadowfell]]'s darkness shifted and ebbed and out of it emerged a grand fortress and countless buildings surrounding it, and walls enclosing this new city to ward off the Dark. [[Gloomwrought]], a fitting name for the city made out of darkness.

## Gloomwrought

As was natural, all manner of beings flocked to the streets of Gloomwrought. Prince Rolan's adventuring company became the Deathless Guard, who kept the peace in the city streets and maintained the rule of law with an iron fist. As promised, the Dark did not reach Gloomwrought's streets and the Keepers did Rolan's bidding, bending the city itself to his will. Rolan's life was good - from the Deathless Palace, he enjoyed all manner of pleasure and created connections with interesting creatures that found shelter in Gloomwrought. The ruler of the only safe haven in the Shadowfell would naturally be a powerful individual, and Rolan enjoyed this power endlessly.

So much, in fact, that watching his original company die to the dangers of the city streets and himself age brought him to the terrible realization: this would all soon end. Unable to accept that one with such power as himself could not stop his own death, Rolan descended into the Shadowheart to meet with the original Keeper again. "Surely an artifact as powerful as the Bulwark can preserve me!" he exclaimed. The Keeper reassured Rolan that, with a portion of the Bulwark's strength directed at him he would live forever. The stability of the city was a small price to pay.

Rolan has only descended into the Shadowheart a handful of times since then, always during great crises. The most recent was during the Sever, when he directed the original Keeper to expel the rebels from his city, and the Ghost Quarter was born as a result. Only a select few of his original companions knew of the circumstances of Gloomwrought's creation, and they are all long dead. Two ghosts in the Shattered Isles may provide insight: Captain Brun Arntsen and the Widow of the Walk.