# The Sisters-Who-Were-One

When the world was new, a sphere of chaos and timeless nothingness, [[Selune]] and her sister [[Shar]] coalesced from the primordial fluctuating essences. They were identical, beautiful polar opposites, silver-haired and raven-haired, light and dark. They saw themselves as one being, that's how close they were. They complemented each other, and brought order out of the chaos.

The two sisters created the universe, the stars and worlds and planes. It was illuminated by the cool radiant face of [[Selune]] and darkened by the hair and welcoming embrace of Shar. Then, the sisters were divided for the first time: [[Selune]] wished to create life on these worlds and grant them warmth and flame, while Shar did not.

The two sisters fought over the fate of their creation, and the other gods emerged from this conflict. They were evenly matched until [[Selune]] reached outside the universe into a world of fire, hurting herself greatly, and brought a fragment of ever-living flame through. This fragment coalesced and became the goddess [[Dol Arrah]]. This greatly enraged Shar and she renewed her assault on her injured sister, and began to blot out all light and warmth in the universe. Desperate to protect the early life, Selûne tore out some of her own divine essence, though it nearly killed her, and hurled it at her sister. Selûne's essence tore through Shar, bonding with some of Shar's essence and pulling it loose. This created the god of magic and divination, Sura.

Though composed from pieces of both sisters, Sura initially sided with Selune and the two cast Shar into a dark prison where she could no longer harm life in the universe. However, the battle left Selûne deeply wounded, and thereafter her power would wax and wane with the ages. Twelve of her pieces became the moons of Atus, while the rest became countless lesser deities spanning every domain and profile. Meanwhile, Shar, who'd retained much of her might, once again grew strong. Consumed with bitterness and loneliness, she vowed revenge and lurked in the darkness until her time to strike, the blood spilling from her wounds giving birth to lesser deities also.

# The Sundering

For a time, a pantheon of eight gods ruled over the world and its arcane domains, to maintain balance and watch over all. And all was good until six evil gods emerged from an unknown place. They came together, part of a natural alliance, and sought to usurp the control and power over the eight domains for themselves, but quickly realised the laws of the world and its magic allowed for that power to be possessed by no more or less than a full Eight, in unison and harmony. The evil gods remained hidden from the Eight, biding their time and seeking followers, for they had no influence over the domains of Life and Light -- without which their conquest was doomed to fail. They turned to the lesser gods of the universe for allies.

Mask sought to court the goddess of joy, poisoning her mind with whispers and lies of how the world was doomed to transform to a joyless wasteland under the influence of the Eight. Talos roared and crackled and enchanted Sune with his wildness and power, earning her love and loyalty. With [[Sune]] and [[Lliira]] on their side, the evil gods launched a full-scale assault on the Eight and caught them unawares. Some of the other, lesser deities and spirits of the world retreated when they sensed the great conflict approaching, but some remained and aligned themselves with one side or the other. In the end, the two pantheons were evenly matched -- control over the eight domains was lost, and chaos reigned while their war raged, in the Material Plane and others. The world trembled and broke, and countless of its races were brought to the brink of extinction.

In the midst of this chaos, strange beings began to pour out of the cracks in the earth wrought by the gods' fighting. These insectoids were part of a larger hive that had laid dormant within the Material Plane, its origins lost to time, and the great upheaval of the war awoke them. They began to devour the world, spreading a strange blight and laying eggs that corrupted every single sort of living being in it. The gods did not agree on a truce but they did find themselves fighting against a common enemy. It took the combined might of both pantheons to eradicate these strange creatures, but this common enemy did not stop the fierce conflict between them.

# The Denouncement

After a hundred years of war between the gods and their servants, Sune, [[Eldath]] and [[Lliira]] met in secret, for they had both reached the conclusion that neither side could prevail, and the war of the gods could only end in the destruction of both, irreparably shattering the world in the process. With the aid of [[Sura]] and a one-eyed elven god, they wove a divine ritual to rewrite the laws of the world. The three gods bode their time until the final battle between the two sides, when the world was close to crumbling under the weight of their terrible, divine power. They put their ritual, the Denouncement, into motion, siphoning the energy the other gods had summoned to tear the laws of creation apart and irrevocably bind both groups into a new, forced balance. The magic of the world now demanded two sets of Eight to maintain balance of the domains. Both had equal power, but both were bound to remain and serve as opposite but necessary sides of the same coin.

The other gods could do little but accept this new reality. Surveying the state their conflict had left the world in, both pantheons decided to withdraw to the Outer Planes and further, and reduce the effect of their divine powers on the world to a minimum.


