The native Illiran humans were a nomadic people in the rolling plains of the north, called Kaanthi in their own language. They had little in the way of technology or organised society, and their population numbered in the hundreds due to the harsh conditions at the plains. The great forests of Fennlor enclosed the plains from three sides, but the humans wanted little to do with the Fenn that resided there, mistrusting the elves' technology and magic.

During a night illuminated by blood red moonlight, the humans' camp was awakened by screams of agony that echoed through the barren landscape. Searching for their source, the humans found a pale humanoid with scale-like skin hunched over a shallow basin made of the same pale material, with a long and wicked blade stuck in his back. An ornate silver chalice lay discarded in the dirt next to the statue. They may have mistaken it for a statue if not for his screaming and the constant flow of blood out of his wound and out of his mouth that filled the basin to the brim. At dawn, the statue's screams ceased, but the flow of blood did not. It was then that the humans' leader, a man called [[Rahvin]], gave in to the inexplicable and undeniable pull of the strange chalice, dipped it in the blood and drank.

The blood changed [[Rahvin]] and the rest of his tribe, who consumed it soon after. All of them experienced a dampening of their emotions, though their anger still burns fiery if provoked, and became able to see in the dark and immune to all poisons and diseases. They also changed in other ways, each in their own, which they interpreted as the blood bringing out their true self. Some of them became larger, some had limbs transformed into snakelike appendages, some lost their legs in favour of a tail. Some of them gained exceptional control over and resistance to the arcane, finding they had an innate talent for it or that they could study and acquire it easily. Finally, a group of them led by [[Rahvin]] became divine warriors and clerics of the entity, granted immense power by its blood and their faith. In their rituals, they could call forth the blood of the entity out of their own mouths and into a silver chalice, which they then consumed to reach a state of meditation and clarity.

They named the entity The Pale One, The Lord of Blood, He Who Screams In The Dark and for the first time created a permanent settlement that quickly grew around him. Some nights, seemingly at random, the moons above the Lord shone with red light and then he screamed in agony. The entire tribe would stay awake with him, in silent vigil and prayer. Rahvin and the other priests grew to fervently love and worship the Lord of Blood, for even in his agony, he gave his essence to the tribe and granted them many gifts. Their numbers grew with their newfound power and soon, their settlement became a city. They built a grand temple around their Lord, and the city grew to rival those of the Fenn. The tribe named the city [[Kaanthus]]. The elves of Fennlor were experiencing their own troubles at the time, with a large part of their forest falling to unknown corruption, and thus could do little to prevent this growth. Both sides treated each other with mistrust, if not open hostility.

Rahvin eventually passed away, having lived four times as long as the oldest tribesman before the blood had been consumed, and with his final breaths beseeched his people to take on a holy purpose: grow in strength and will enough that they may pull the accursed blade out of their Lord and free him from his constant agony and misery. The next few generations fervently took up Rahvin's commandment but were met only with disappointment. The Lord's agony beneath the red moons continued, and the Kaanthi grew increasingly desperate. In a wondrous feat of magical strength, they drew upon their god's power and cast a spell to sink Kaanthus beneath the ground of the plains and shield their Lord from the moons' red light. They remained underground for centuries, growing their power and biding their time and always unsuccessful at drawing out the sword. Recently, they returned to the surface, having developed a method for drawing out magical and physical power from other races through their blood and absorbing it themselves. They plan to amass enough of it so that their current High Priest and champion of their race, [[Talesh]], may gain enough power to stop the Lord of Blood's torment. But beneath the red moons again, his screams continue.

To draw power from others and amass the strength needed to pull out the sword, a sect of the Kaanthi called the Flayed emerged. These tribesmembers remove their own human skin before consuming blood extracted from a still living being in the midst of a complicated ritual. Their skin then grows back scaly. To affirm their commitment, the Flayed sometimes perform the first part of the ceremony weeks or months before donated blood can be secured, and live with the pain of missing skin as a way to sort of cleanse themselves. The ceremony can be repeated indefinitely, with scaly skin being flayed and growing back stronger and stronger.