The tower was lifted from the position at the cliffside during an assault by [[Vajira Safahr]], who aimed to capture Zelar Resk and the other archmages. It remained aloft and on the move until the political situation settled, and discussions on what to do with the now floating tower and [[Rawcliffe]] itself began with the new queen soon after.

It was decided that the division between the archmages need not be resolved, and that both aspects of [[Rawcliffe]] would be preserved: those archmages that preferred their role to be of innovators and teachers in the field of magic would return to [[Rawcliffe]] and rebuild the institute, while those that wished to become involved with politics and the state would remain in the Tower.
-   A new institute would be built at the position the tower used to hold, at the cliffside above [[Rawcliffe]] village. It would be a place of arcane research, innovation and learning. The Royal Society of Arcane Engineers would work closely with the new institute from Harrowstone Keep under the supervision of the archmage of Industry. The archmage of Erudition became headmaster of the institute, while the archmmage of Weaving led the arcane research there. Its new crest is an open tome surrounded by clouds.
-   The floating tower would have to be anchored for a time, as the creature powering its enchantment was becoming weakened. Aetherium would be used to hold it up, but it could only move when the beholder recovered. The Hill district of Castath was chosen as a temporary location for it. The tower was renamed the Tower of Nine, and its arrival was accompanied by city-wide festivities in Castath. The tower's crest is a tower floating in the sky with nine stars surrounding it, signifying that all nine archmages are there in spirit.
-   The archmage of Virtuosity was conspicuously absent from meetings and could not be reached, and the archmage of Extraplanar Studies was on another long expedition and was, similarly, unreachable.
-   The archmage of Antiquity chose to remain at the LARP headquarters in Castath and continue running the operation. Her and the new archmage of Domestic Security also established the [[Circle of Esoteric Regulation and Nullification]], CERN, that would become known as simply the Circle. [[Circle of Esoteric Regulation and Nullification|The Circle]] was also based on [[League of Archaeological Research and Preservation|LARP]] headquarters, and the aims of the two organisations often overlapped.